# 2026-02-25

I wasn't very productive yesterday, Tonia was very sick with some kind of stomach bug so I ended up spending most of the day with her rewatching Justified. It is a mindless activity but something we enjoy doing together. I made her meals and just generally kept her company. I'm feeling a little more emotionally stable, less of that panic I've been struggling with.

I watched a YouTube Short that really connected with me, but I'm not sure what to do with the information. "Maybe the reason you're so good at understanding everyone around you, seeing their pain, their patterns, their complexity, is because deep down you wish that someone would finally do the same for you. You carry so much awareness. You notice what everyone else miss. You hold space. You translate emotions. You connect the dots often without anyone realizing how much effort that takes. Part of that gift probably comes from a deep longing to be seen without having to explain yourself, to be understood without needing to perform, and to have someone to recognize not just what you do, but who you are underneath it."

This touches a nerve regarding the ongoing tension between Tonia and me, stemming from my feeling that my emotions are nullified and explained away whenever they approach Tonia's ego or sense of self worth. Well, at least those are the times conflict arises and quickly. Other times she hears the source of pain I'm expressing and basically explains why whatever I'm experiencing doesn't exist, e.g. It isn't how I'm interpreting it, it is something else that isn't problematic. I feel like she's saying "You shouldn't be upset." I know her intention isn't that, her intention is that she loves me and doesn't want me to be upset. The issue is that I'm an imperfect person and sometimes she's right. However, since her responses are mostly the same I can never truly benefit from these loving corrections.

I feel confident that she understands my need in the relationship: the ability to have non-positive feelings, and for her to just hold that space for me. But this pattern is as deep as any in our relationship so I'm not very optimistic. I know I must seriously work on navigating those times to avoid this toxic cycle and prevent these moments from escalating into big fights.
