# Journal — 2026-02-22

It was a difficult day, I feel I'm veering into a difficult period. I'm confused by what's going on with me. For the last two months, I've been on an AI tear, discovering the power of moving from something like ChatGPT to Claude Code to Clawdbot/Openclaw. I'm concerned I was in a manic episode or something, my enthusiasm was so intense and my goals so lofty and I was convinced I was about to revolutionize the Inn via technology. I was dreaming in AI, pulling all-nighters and sort of driving Tonia a little crazy with it. It created more than one argument with Tonia, mostly summarized as "She doesn't get it." Unfortunately, I think I erred too far on the enterprise vs. the practical side. Although I have a very powerful workflow, I've delivered very little practical value to the business. I'm very disappointed in myself, I'm embarrassed.

I've been very tough on Tonia for the past couple of months. Basically it feels like I'm saddled with most of the business aspects. She isn't very good at things she isn't familiar with and when she tries to help it tends to create more problems than it solves. But I think I was unfair in that characterization, she has her own burdens in running the kitchen and food services generally. She also brings emotional stability to not just the Inn but our lives, whereas I tend to have pretty dramatic mood swings.

Speaking of mood swings, it has most definitely swung and I suddenly feel very odd, very sad, feelings of being trapped and like I've made a terrible mistake making this choice to live this life as an Innkeeper. It makes me question my motives and beliefs, are they real or are they professed as a coping mechanism? I know I feel them deeply but I also know I go through these periods where this lifestyle feels like I'm trapped.
