I had a pretty good day yesterday, both professionally and personally. It was Thursday, the day Ethan and I try to spend time together playing an online video game Valheim. For background, I have three grown children: Allison, a 32-year-old unmarried social worker in Austin, TX, Michael, a 30-year-old unmarried fine artist/painter in Chicago, IL; and Ethan, a 29-year-old newlywed aspiring paramedic in Denver, CO. We've always been a very close family and I've always had an especially close relationship with Ethan. Growing up, he was always my mini-me, my little partner and shadow. Nothing I was doing seemed uninteresting to him, he just wanted to do what I was doing. Just remembering those times forces me to choke back tears. As the kids became adults there was a period of 5-7 years where I had this recurring dream of being dog-piled with the kids, cuddling in bed watching TV or throwing them around in the pool. I'd wake up weeping deeply. I'll never forget when we all lived in Austin. All three kids were out of the house but we all lived within 30 minutes of each other and spent time together frequently. I was speaking casually with Ethan about nothing in particular and our conversation was naturally ending. Out of the blue, almost as an aside, he told me he and his girlfriend had decided to move to Seattle. I was speechless; I had no idea they were even considering it. I stammered and just couldn't control the sadness that the thought of him being so far from me brought. I cried my eyes out, regularly. Strangely, my reaction drove a small wedge between us, I learned later. At some point he shared that he resented my feelings about the move, as it dampened his excitement. I withheld how I felt about that sentiment for fear of deepening the gap I could feel growing between us. Fast forward a few years and Tonia's mom was dying of Alzheimer's. It was a horrible few years, Ruth and Art lived in rural Arkansas, we lived in Texas, Tonia's sister lived in a small town, Evansville, IN and candidly, suffered from mental illness. That made us the primary caregivers and we frequently played "planes, trains and automobiles" getting to their house to help them. Near the end it went as you'd expect and Ruth was basically gone long before she died. On one fateful trip we arrived and Ruth was herself momentarily. Tonia was over the moon so I thought it a good opportunity for the kids to share the experience with their mom and possibly speak to their grandma likely for the last time. For some reason, they took offense, I don't know what they thought my intentions were but suddenly I started getting incredibly hurtful text messages and emails from Ethan and Allie which crushed me. At first I was angry, feeling protective of Tonia, then brokenhearted, both kids said very hurtful, totally confusing things. They didn't speak to me for almost a year, which I think traumatized me. To end the rift I basically ate shit and just apologized and took full responsibility to get my kids back. But it was never the same, I withdrew further into myself for fear of such a rift happening again.

That's a long windup to what happened over Christmas. It was our first trip back to Austin since we purchased the Inn in June 2024. We split our time between staying with Allie and my brother, Ryan and his girlfriend, Tina. Ethan and his wife were there so we spent time at Allie's house with Ethan and Brittney and it was generally a good time. Unfortunately, when I'm around the kids now I perceive only minor slights and cutting comments, with very little, if any positive or respectful remarks directed toward me. I'm aware that my perception is not likely totally accurate but it began to wear on me. It began to affect my mood considerably but Tonia wasn't empathetic. Again, that's possibly not entirely accurate. Wanting to make the most of our precious little time with the kids so she explained away their behavior and my perception of it which caused her and I to have a major fight. She ended up telling the kids and Ethan called me to allow me to express myself... but I couldn't. I totally lied to him, saying I wasn't upset and that Tonia misunderstood me, etc. I could tell he knew better but he didn't press the issue. Basically I did this because I'm terrified of losing touch with the kids again, that was a terrible time for me. Combined with my general fear of expressing differing points of view or setting boundaries with loved ones, it becomes totally self-isolating.

Yesterday, during our weekly video game time with Ethan, I decided to be courageous and authentic and told him the truth. He wasn't at all surprised and I felt like he heard and understood the best he can at his age. What I mean is that you can't understand the grief of how I feel as my kids transition into their own power and agency and your role rapidly diminishes in their lives unless you've been a parent. It would be unreasonable of me to expect him to understand, so I'm ok with carrying the burden myself. I consider it as the continued price paid for the joy of being a parent. I'm very happy I shared my feelings with him but I know I'm going to have to push myself to be comfortable with discomfort by being more real with those close to me. Being willing to have boundaries, recognizing and fighting against my internal messaging that to have boundaries means something about how you feel about the other, instead, leaning into showing up for myself and knowing I'm loved for who I actually am vs. who I'm performing to be.
