I'm still feeling down compared to how I've felt the past few months but yesterday was better. I spent the morning running errands with Tonia. I've gotten out of that habit because I've tended towards being efficient with our time but I think I lost sight of how meaningful routine things like that are for her; not because it is necessary, but because it is bonding and a good opportunity to spend time together. It is also clear that so much of her day-to-day routine involves shopping, especially food shopping, that she wants me to share that burden for our personal food (meal planning, shopping, etc.). I know I'm not very good at doing that so I'm going to start making an effort.

We're still recovering from the frequent and intense fighting over the past few months, if not past couple of years. It's always about the same thing: her "not allowing me to have feelings." I'm seeing my part in this more clearly in my current state of mind and she seems to be seeing hers. It's difficult to believe the dynamic that has existed throughout our entire relationship will truly change, but I feel somewhat optimistic.

Happily, I had a very productive afternoon catching up on annual corporate reporting type things, which I have been procrastinating on.

Today, I'm preparing for our first wedding of the season, which is later next week. I've only done one so I'm definitely a little nervous. I need to watch my tendency to overcomplicate things, as there are serious diminishing returns. Otherwise, I need to do bookkeeping work to prepare for a meeting with our CPA tomorrow.

And, I'm finally getting a haircut today... wow did I let that go too long!
